PERSONAL STATEMENT
Harrison McKeeman, Brazil, Interdisciplinary
During my undergraduate education, I found myself drawn to the intersection of computer science and linguistics also known as computational linguistics. After completing several classes in this field I was surprised by how much of it was modeled on human behavior. For example, a buzz word amongst my classmates was “blockchain” technology. I knew this technology had risen to popularity several years earlier in the form of bitcoin. I understood it as a way to distribute a precise and updated copy of a ledger across a network of computers. The behavioral metaphor became that computers in the bitcoin network were mining for digital gold. 
While all of this sounded amazing at the time, as a broke college student it was hard to see the applications of blockchains outside the world of finance. To me it was just a way for the rich to get richer. After graduation, I was able to put my formal education into practice as a language data analyst. Unlike my classmates at school, the blockchain fad seemed to have faded amongst my colleagues. The next time I encountered blockchain technology was in the most unlikely of places. 
From 2017 to 2019 I had the privilege of serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in Mozambique. I worked as a teacher in the semi-arid, southern province of Gaza; a place with far more cattle, goats, farms, charm and kindness than ATMs and computers. One of the first things you learn about in Mozambique is Mpesa. This is an African mobile banking service like Venmo or Cash App that uses phone numbers instead of personal accounts. With this technology people in Mozambique can send money all over the country even from the most remote village. No need for cash, debit cards, or ATMs. Just a phone with cellular service. Unsurprisingly, my heart skipped a beat when I first heard about Bitpesa. 
Bitpesa is exactly the same as Mpesa with one crucial difference. Instead of being able to send sovereign currency, users can send bitcoin. By doing so, users of bitpesa are free from the corruption and subsequent devaluing that so often plagues sovereign currencies in developing economies. For example, within just months of my time in Mozambique I watched 1 US dollar range from 60 to 80 in Mozambican currency. This may seem like nothing to the average westerner, but it was deeply detrimental to people in my community. At this point I began to see blockchain technology as a method for empowerment rather than enrichment. 
After completing my Peace Corps service I was accepted to study forensic linguistics at Hofstra University. In the fall semester of 2020, Professor Robert Leonard introduced me to the concept of “shared world knowledge.” People with shared world knowledge hold and understand information in the same way. Again, I found myself thinking about blockchain technology. Information stored on blockchains is known by all computers in the network. In other words these computers have shared world knowledge. 
The shared world knowledge held in blockchains provides unmatched network security. This security can be utilized to combat corruption in many ways outside the world of finance. The purpose of this grant will be to apply this same security to the degrees being offered by institutes of higher education. By doing so, I hope to provide a method for citizens of developing countries to first empower themselves, then their countries, and finally the world.