STATEMENT OF GRANT PURPOSE
Harrison McKeeman, Brazil, Computer Science 
Securing University Admissions with Hyperledger


        In 2019, institutes of higher education in the United States faced a scandal that became known as Operation Varsity Blues. In short, wealthy parents were caught bribing admission offices to accept their children. A similar pain is currently being felt in Brazil in the form of degree forgeries (Martina 2019). These examples clearly reveal the ways that trusted institutions of higher education are susceptible to corruption. Consequently, the need to secure the integrity of these institutions has never been greater. Thankfully, researchers at the Federal University of Santa Catarina have proposed an elegant solution.
        The paper “Blockchain and Smart Contracts for Higher Education Registry in Brazil” details the implementation of two technologies to combat corruption in higher education (Martina 2019). The first and underlying technology to this solution is called a blockchain. Blockchains are a distributed digital ledger run by a network of computers. Importantly, all computers in the network possess an updated copy of the ledger. In other words, each computer possesses the same exact data making falsification by one computer impossible. The second technology is a type of computer program known as a smart contract. When executed, smart contracts allow data to be added to all copies of the blockchain. Once again making the falsification by one computer impossible.
        If selected to receive a Fulbright scholarship, I propose to research the application of blockchain and smart contract technology to the process of higher education admissions. I plan to work with Professor Jean Martina, one of the authors of the aforementioned paper, at the Federal University of Santa Catarina, Brazil. Our goal will be to create an architecture for the admissions process using Hyperledger and smart contracts with the Go programming language. 
Hyperledger is an open source blockchain platform that possesses several attractive qualities for this research proposal. For example, Professor Martina’s original paper was constructed using a public cryptocurrency blockchain. Increasing popularity in cryptocurrency has made this architecture financially and environmentally expensive. On the contrary, Hyperledger can be run on a private network that does not require holding cryptocurrency. Additionally, Hyperledger offers several frameworks that work with different programming languages to ensure computational and environmental efficiency. 
For the purposes of this proposal, three smart contracts need to be constructed. The first is called Admission and it gives institutions of higher education the ability to issue applications. The second smart contract is called Application and it compares the necessary qualifications of the institution to the qualifications of the applicant. Lastly, the third smart contract is called Decision which issues a denial, wait-list, or acceptance to the applicant. 
The most suitable framework offered by Hyperledger to execute these smart contracts is called Hyperledger Fabric. A blockchain within Hyperledger Fabric is modular, which means that only permissioned entities are allowed to see certain modules. In the context of higher education, this means protecting the academic information of students and professors. I will write these smart contracts in collaboration with Lucas Palma, a PhD Student of Professor Martina who recommended using HyperLedger Fabric. Each contract will take one month to write and another month to debug. Compiling all three contracts and running them with test institutions and applicants will take one more month. The last two months will be spent writing and revising an accessible academic paper in line with Professor Martina’s previous work. 
 I know this project is a challenging undertaking but I believe it is also extremely felicitous. The combination of my educational and professional experience makes me an ideal candidate to tackle corruption in higher education. My fascination with the utility of different programming languages began in my undergraduate education as I pursued a degree in linguistics. After graduation, I then held positions in both the technological and legal fields. Afterwards, I served as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Mozambique where I learned to speak Portuguese. Upon my return from Mozambique, I was accepted to Hofstra University where I am currently pursuing my masters degree in forensic linguistics. Although not complete, this program has already provided me with invaluable experience about the application of linguistic science to legal domains such as bribes and contracts. Finally, the combination of these experiences has led Professor Martina to request that I offer my expertise in English to help his graduate students write academically.
In preparation for this grant, I will first and foremost complete my masters degree with academic rigor. Specifically, my capstone project will focus on the interpretation of smart contracts in the United States court system. I will also continue my practice of computer programming through two online resources. The first is a course offered by Udemy that focuses on programming in Go. The second is a smart contract writing course called the Plutus Pioneer Program that focuses on teaching smart contracts to those without programming experience. In terms of Portuguese, I am fortunate enough to come from and to currently live in one of the largest lusophone communities in the United States. Additionally, I will supplement my Portuguese speaking interactions with daily Duolingo lessons. Lastly, I will continue to have monthly meetings with Professor Martina to discuss the proposed architecture and brainstorm more ways to secure higher education. 
The conclusion of this grant will offer a feasible and secure architecture for the higher education admissions process. This architecture can then be adopted in Brazil, the United States and around the world to strengthen academic integrity. With the experience and knowledge of this grant, I have two future plans in mind. First, I plan to apply to the University of Arizona where researchers are currently using blockchains to transfer credits between institutes of higher education. Second, I hope to start a career implementing smart contracts and data structures such as blockchains to secure the data of individuals in legal cases.


Bibliography
1. Palma, Lucas M., et al. “Blockchain and Smart Contracts for Higher Education Registry in Brazil.” Wiley Online Library, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, 21 Jan. 2019, onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/nem.2061.